HPK Icons
=========
Version 2.0.1 for OS/2
======================
README
======

Contents
=-=-=-=-

About the icons

About OS/2 icons in general

A few hints on using the Icon Editor

Package contents

Availability

Feedback to the author

History of changes


About the icons
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

The images
----------

All HPK Icons are carefully made and consist of all forms that are in the
standard icons that come with OS/2. This way the images don't have to be
scaled up or down with ugly results. The default 16-color palette is used
throughout. This minimizes color mixups due to programs changing the display
palette. Some icon pairs are suited well for folder animation.


The names
---------

The scheme of descriptive names keeps the icons in a useful order when they
are sorted by name. (If the files are sorted by type, the text files appear
before the icon files instead of between them.) The base part of the filenames
consists of "atomic" parts separated by underscores. When deciding between
brevity and meaning, I choose the latter. Because of that a few names are
rather overdone, but shortening these names would mean either breaking the
naming scheme or making it incomprehensible for the shorter names, both of
which I don't want.

The naming scheme is demonstrated in the following examples:

1. [D:\docs\HPK Icons] dir arr_*

   List all icons with an arrow as the base element

2. [D:\docs\HPK Icons] dir *_char*

   List all icons with one or more characters as an additional element

3. [D:\docs\HPK Icons] dir *picframe*

   List all icons with the picframe element

   Note: Since the picframe element has no style variations,
         "picframe" must not be followed by an underscore in this case,
         otherwise picframe.ICO would not be listed.

4. [D:\docs\HPK Icons] dir *_green_dark.*

   List all icons with a dark green styled foremost element

5. [D:\docs\HPK Icons] dir *_red*

   List all icons with red (dark or not) styled elements

6. [D:\docs\HPK Icons] dir *_with_* *_and_*

   List all icons that are combinations of elements


KEDIT.ICO, KEDIT_transpar.ICO, THE.ICO, THE_transpar.ICO
--------------------------------------------------------

KEDIT is a text editor by Mansfield Software Group that is sold commercially.
THE (The Hessling Editor) is a similar editor by Mark Hessling
<M.Hessling@qut.edu.au> which is under the GNU General Public License.

KEDIT.ICO is similar to the KEDIT manual cover in the lines, the shape of the
"K", and the colors. The colors in it are similar to the default color table
of KEDIT; the colors in THE.ICO are similar to the default color table of THE.
I.e. these icons have the same colors the editors use by default.

KEDIT_transpar.ICO and THE_transpar.ICO are most useful on dark color or image
backgrounds.


mon_darken.ICO
--------------

I use this icon for program objects for the screen saver Blackout by Staffan
Ulfberg <staffanu@nada.kth.se> which is under the GNU General Public License.
The default operation of this screen saver is to reduce the display to
semidarkness in the first step and to switch the monitor to power saving modes
in later steps.


NLL.ICO
-------

This icon consists of scaled down versions of the logo of the amateur rock
band No Love Lost headed by Terry Olan Jones <terryj@sfu.ca>. The No Love Lost
"fun pack" that is available from him by e-mail contains audio samples from
the album and the band logo.

I use this icon for a folder with the No Love Lost "fun pack".


Shell.ICO
---------

A few years ago Shell had a campaign of magazine advertisings here in Germany
that included a set of drawings showing how the Shell logo is constructed. One
day I tried to follow these drawings and made a Shell.BMP. Shell.ICO consists
of scaled down versions of this bitmap with a few manual corrections.

I use this icon for an "Other Shells" folder containing shadows of the "OS/2
Window", "DOS Window" and "WIN-OS/2 Window" objects.


arr_thickbent_nw_ne_blue.ICO, Floyd_94.ICO
------------------------------------------

These icons also consist of scaled down versions of larger images.


standardforms.ICO
-----------------

Like all the other HPK Icons, standardforms.ICO consists of all forms that are
in the standard icons that come with OS/2, but the images are nothing but
transparent. This icon is provided as a template for your own icons.

In fact, standardforms.ICO should appear as a template if you view the folder
containing the HPK Icons with the Workplace Shell. Also, after you did this,
it should appear in the "Create another" cascaded menu of the pop-up menu of
any icon.


If standardforms.ICO is not a template
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

If standardforms.ICO is not under "Create another" in the pop-up menu of the
icons, the workplace shell obviously hasn't recognized it as a template. I can
think of two reasons for this. Probably you haven't yet viewed the folder
containing it. If you did, it probably lost its extended attributes. Then
unpack it again from the HPK Icons package you received it in if you still
have it. Of course, the file system where it is stored must support extended
attributes for this. If you don't have the package anymore, open the settings
and select the Template check box on the General page.

If you can't make standardforms.ICO a template, don't worry. The purpose of a
template is just to provide a convenient way of making a new copy of it, so
just copy it yourself instead.

If standardforms.ICO has lost its EAs and you want to redistribute the HPK
Icons, use a separate program to make standardforms.ICO a template again. A
simple REXX program can do this. Better yet, contact the author because the
HPK Icons may have been changed otherwise, too.


About OS/2 icons in general
=-=-=-=-=--=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Animated icons
--------------

With OS/2 Warp, folders can have "animated icons". The animation consists of a
second icon being used when the folder is open. Still, this animation icon is
*not* used in some prominent places like the title bar of the folder window
itself.

Note that in the settings of a folder there are two pages under General. Page
1 is as usual, while page 2 is for the animation icon. Be sure to check both
pages when changing the icon of a folder. If you drag an animated icon from a
folder object (e.g. the "OS/2 System" folder) to one of the pages, both pages
are changed simultaneously. However, if you drag a normal icon to one of the
pages, the other page is *not* changed. Of course something like this is
necessary so you can combine two normal icons into an animated one. If you
want to change from an animated icon to a normal icon, first change the icon
on page 1 and then disable the animation by selecting the Default button on
page 2; the animation icon will disappear.


Icon forms
----------

Q: Which form should I use when creating icons? Independent VGA or the
   other formats?

A: Yes. I mean, use all that are marked with an asterisk in the Icon Editor,
   which means they are recommended. You get to the list with these marks via
   Device - List - Add.

Q: Why are these icon forms recommended? I mean, why should the icon file
   contain all of these forms?

A: If not all of them are in the icon file, the missing ones will be scaled up
   or down from one of the others when they are needed, and this is ugly in
   most cases.

Q: Please explain the recommended and other standard icon forms in greater
   detail. And what's the matter with this scaling?

A: With screen resolutions of 640x480 or 800x600 pixels, the normal icons are
   32x32 pixels and the small ones (e.g. in the title bars) are 16x16 pixels.
   With resolutions of 1024x768 or higher, the normal ones are 40x40 and the
   small ones are 20x20.

   If these forms are missing in the icon file, they will be scaled up or down
   from the ones that are there, which can make them very ugly. To scale 32x32
   up to 40x40, eight "rows" and eight "columns" will be doubled, which is
   instantly noticeable because e.g. slanted lines become jagged and maybe
   some straight lines become double thick while others don't. Excellent
   examples for these effects are icons of objects for Windows programs. And
   if a larger form has to be scaled down, rows and columns are left out,
   which is even worse because visual information gets lost.

   Here's a table of all the forms in the standard icons:

      Size   Colors  Used at Res.   Title

      32x32      16   <= 800x600   *Independent Color Form (=VGA)
      16x16      16         "      *Independent Small Color Form
      16x16       2         "       Independent Small BW Form
      40x40      16  >= 1024x768   *XGA/8514 - 16 colors
      20x20      16         "      *XGA/8514 Small Color Form
      20x20       2         "       XGA/8514 Small BW Form
      32x32       2  black-white   *Independent BW Form (=1.1 format)

      An asterisk means that the form is recommended.

   Note that there are five recommended forms but two more standard forms.
   These two, the small BW forms, were used in OS/2 2.x where now the small
   color forms are used. (If an icon contains the small BW form but not the
   small color form, the BW one is still used in version 3.) In other words,
   if you want your icons work nicely in 2.x too, you might want to use the
   small BW forms also. In this case it's important to know that all colors
   appear as black where small forms are used in OS/2 2.x - a pixel can appear
   either as black, the background, or the reverse background. So don't use
   white in the small BW forms.

Q: All these icon forms are too much of a hassle for me. I'd like to make good
   icons but I don't want to have a lot of work. Which forms should I leave
   out then?

A: Then leave out all BW forms. Most people have color displays and are using
   Warp anyway. (Then again, a BW form is easy to make once you have the color
   form of the same size.) This leaves you with four forms. Read on.

Q: Can I use the 32x32 and 16x16 images for the 40x40 and 20x20 forms?

A: Yes. Just copy and paste those images into the slightly larger forms (but
   not using Stretch Paste, of course). You may still want to extend parts
   like a base color or a background pattern to the edges if the images look
   better that way.

Q: I have a 32x32 or 40x40 image. How can I make a 16x16 or 20x20 image out of
   it?

A: * Choose an important part of the image that is small enough to fit into
     the smaller form, and leave out the rest.

   * Reduce the number of similar elements.

   * Leave out unimportant details.

   * Reduce crucial details to an absolute minimum.

   * Try to find out whether certain image part sizes are fixed or depend on
     the overall image size (or on each other), and use these dependencies to
     scale the image down (or up for that matter).


A few hints on using the Icon Editor
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

* To change among the icon forms quickly and easily, click on the form name in
  the status area and use the arrow keys.

* To sort the icon forms within the editor, choose List in the Device menu and
  use the Up and Down buttons.

  Not every conceivable order is possible, and apparently the order changes
  most of the times an icon is saved and restored. Still, an order that keeps
  similar forms together makes editing easier. I have found the following
  possible order useful:

      Size   Colors   Title

      16x16       2   Independent Small BW Form
      16x16      16  *Independent Small Color Form
      32x32       2  *Independent BW Form (=1.1 format)
      32x32      16  *Independent Color Form (=VGA)
      20x20       2   XGA/8514 Small BW Form
      20x20      16  *XGA/8514 Small Color Form
      40x40      16  *XGA/8514 - 16 colors

* To choose a non-square pen size, click on the pen size in the status area
  and use the arrow keys, or mark an area of that size and press Alt+J.

* As with other PM programs, try to learn the shortcut key combinations for
  the operations you do most frequently. They are listed next to the names in
  the menus, and can be found by selecting "Keys help" in the Help menu.


Package contents
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

The HPK Icons package consists of the following files:

   date              size  EAs  name
   dd.mm.yy  hh.mm

   25.01.96   8.23  20395    0  README
   18.01.96  19.43    486    0  FILE_ID.DIZ
    9.12.95  13.13   4026    0  arr_conic_ne_green_dark.ICO
    9.12.95  13.26   4026    0  arr_conic_se_red_dark.ICO
    9.12.95  13.25   4026    0  arr_conic_small_se_red_dark_and_arr_conic_small_ne_green_dark.ICO
    9.12.95  14.19   4026    0  arr_ne_green_dark.ICO
   16.12.95  17.23   4026    0  arr_ne_green_dark_with_selectorpanel_small_grey_yellow.ICO
    9.12.95  14.17   4026    0  arr_se_blue.ICO
    9.12.95  14.18   4026    0  arr_se_red_dark.ICO
   13.01.96  20.29   4026    0  arr_thickbent_nw_ne_blue.ICO
   19.08.95  13.32   4026    0  blackhole.ICO
    9.12.95  16.06   4026    0  car_round_red.ICO
   16.12.95  18.15   4026    0  car_round_red_with_driver.ICO
   24.12.95  17.49   4026    0  chars_COPY_yellow.ICO
   20.12.95  23.00   4026    0  chars_HPK_blue.ICO
   24.12.95  17.51   4026    0  chars_ICO_yellow.ICO
   24.12.95  17.52   4026    0  chars_LOCAL_yellow.ICO
   13.01.96  19.45   4026    0  chars_serif_TeX_yellow.ICO
   20.12.95  23.03   4026    0  chars_TeX_yellow.ICO
   20.12.95  23.03   4026    0  chars_ZIP_yellow.ICO
   24.12.95  17.45   4026    0  char_A_brown.ICO
   23.12.95  21.54   4026    0  char_excla_blue.ICO
   23.12.95  21.55   4026    0  char_excla_red.ICO
   23.12.95  22.02   4026    0  char_P_grey.ICO
   23.12.95  21.32   4026    0  char_ques_excla_blue.ICO
   25.11.95  22.51   4026    0  checker.ICO
   10.12.95  22.53   4026    0  dice.ICO
   10.12.95  23.02   4026    0  dice_open.ICO
    8.01.96  22.32   4026    0  disk_525.ICO
   26.10.95  22.54   4026    0  fermenter.ICO
   26.10.95  22.55   4026    0  fermenter_open.ICO
   15.01.96  21.23   4026    0  Floyd_94.ICO
   16.12.95  18.29   4026    0  picframe.ICO
   20.12.95  23.12   4026    0  picframe_with_chars_HPK_blue.ICO
   16.12.95  18.30   4026    0  picframe_with_wrench_grey_dark.ICO
    9.12.95  18.37   4026    0  picframe_with_wrench_grey_dark_with_hand.ICO
    4.12.95  11.36   4026    0  hatch_black_yellow.ICO
    4.12.95  11.37   4026    0  hatch_red_white.ICO
   24.12.95  18.10   4026    0  KEDIT.ICO
   24.12.95  18.11   4026    0  KEDIT_transpar.ICO
    8.01.96  22.16   4026    0  Kilroy.ICO
    9.12.95  23.36   4026    0  Kilroy_gone.ICO
    8.01.96  22.18   4026    0  Kilroy_grin_without_wall.ICO
    8.01.96  22.18   4026    0  Kilroy_sober_without_wall.ICO
    8.01.96  22.19   4026    0  Kilroy_surprised_without_wall.ICO
   21.10.95  14.35   4026    0  mon_darken.ICO
   15.01.96  21.55   4026    0  NLL.ICO
   16.12.95  17.51   4026    0  pen_brown.ICO
   16.12.95  17.50   4026    0  pen_brown_with_hand.ICO
   12.11.95  14.32   4026    0  scroll.ICO
   12.11.95  14.32   4026    0  scroll_open.ICO
   16.12.95  17.39   4026    0  selectorpanel_grey_yellow.ICO
   16.12.95  17.38   4026    0  selectorpanel_slideonly_grey_yellow.ICO
   26.12.95  18.52   4026    0  Shell.ICO
    9.12.95  14.34   4026    0  sign_arr_se.ICO
   27.08.95  13.37   4026    0  sign_caution.ICO
    4.12.95  11.50   4026    0  sign_caution_grad_down.ICO
    4.12.95  11.49   4026    0  sign_caution_grad_up.ICO
    4.09.95  20.39   4026    0  sign_donotenter.ICO
   12.11.95  21.30   4026    0  sign_forbidden.ICO
    9.12.95  18.41   4026    0  sign_forbidden_wrench.ICO
   27.11.95   0.01   4026    0  sign_no_checker.ICO
    9.12.95  18.48   4026    0  sign_no_wrench.ICO
   17.01.96   8.14   4026    0  sign_prio.ICO
    9.12.95  23.04   4026    0  sign_STOP.ICO
   19.08.95  13.08   4026    0  sign_yield.ICO
    9.12.95  19.54   4026    0  THE.ICO
    9.12.95  19.57   4026    0  THE_transpar.ICO
    9.12.95  16.22   4026    0  van_round_red.ICO
   16.12.95  18.15   4026    0  van_round_red_with_driver.ICO
    9.12.95  18.48   4026    0  wrench_grey_dark.ICO
   23.12.95  21.49   4026    0  wrench_grey_dark_with_char_ques_excla_blue.ICO
    9.12.95  16.53   4026    0  wrench_grey_dark_with_hand.ICO
   19.08.95  11.47   4026  129  standardforms.ICO

   The EAs of standardforms.ICO contain the TEMPLATE=YES setting.


Availability
=-=-=-=-=-=-

Technical
---------

The current version of the HPK Icons package should be available where you got
this version from, or on the Internet via anonymous FTP. The servers where it
is originally distributed are ftp.cdrom.com in the USA and
ftp.uni-stuttgart.de in Germany. The appropriate directory on cdrom.com is
pub/os2/multimed/icons; on uni-stuttgart it is pub/systems/os2/graphics/icons.
The HPK Icons package is the ZIP file hpkico??.zip, where ?? are the (first)
digits of the version number. If it has just been uploaded, it will be in the
directory pub/os2/incoming on cdrom.com; on uni-stuttgart, read access to the
incoming directories is denied to anonymous FTP users.

In short, the URLs of these locations are:

   ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/os2/multimed/icons/
   ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/os2/incoming/

   ftp://ftp.uni-stuttgart.de/pub/systems/os2/graphics/icons/

As an example, the URLs of the HPK Icons version 2.0 ZIP file in these
locations are:

   ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/os2/multimed/icons/hpkico20.zip
   ftp://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/os2/incoming/hpkico20.zip

   ftp://ftp.uni-stuttgart.de/pub/systems/os2/graphics/icons/hpkico20.zip


Legal
-----

This version of the HPK Icons package is freeware. It may be made available in
a manner or with a product that is not free, but it must be available for free
itself.

The HPK Icons package may be distributed if everything is included without any
change and nothing is added. This also applies to the non-icon files, the
extended attributes, and the filenames.

You may have the contents of the HPK Icons package stored on a file system
that does not support extended attributes or long filenames, or in a directory
that contains other files or directories. However, you may not redistribute
them in that way or from there.

You may modify or extract any part of the HPK Icons package for personal or
company use. However, you may not make the result available to a third party
as or in a new product unless it is also freeware and contains a reference to
the HPK Icons with version number as the source of that part, with
standardforms.ICO as the only exception to this requirement.

There is no warranty.

   HPK Icons package
   Copyright 1996 by Horst Kiehl
   All rights reserved


Feedback to the author
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions, especially for new icons,
or if you have found an error, please contact me. Your feedback is welcome.

   Horst Kiehl
   h.p.kiehl@kfa-juelich.de


Version history
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Previous: Was available only at the work place of the author, or directly from
          him. Contained some icons in OS/2 2.x style, i.e. with shadows and
          some non-default palettes, and had an inferior naming scheme.

          A companion collection contained modified versions of some standard
          icons in OS/2 2.x.

2.0:      First general availability

2.0.1:    Changed: Arrangement of version history (right here in this README)

          Updated: Mark Hessling's e-mail address (in this README)

          Improved: Mention about the saving and restoring of the order of the
                    icon forms (in this README)

          Added: Mention of denied read access to the incoming directories on
                 ftp.uni-stuttgart.de (in this README)

          Corrected: sign_atten*.ICO renamed to sign_caution*.ICO

          Improved: frame*.ICO renamed to picframe*.ICO

          Improved: *tool*.ICO renamed to *wrench*.ICO
